
Vivado IP in Vicoco
===================

When running a cocotb testbench with Vicoco, it's possible to include encrypted Vivado IP, unlike
in Icarus/Verilator/other open source simulators. Vicoco can use XCI/BD scripts directly as sources,
and can run TCL scripts that export simulations, and use the IP specified in them within the
testbench. There are a few methods by which IP can be added, detailed below.

For more details on how the compilation and simulation stages of ``xsim`` are launched by Vicoco,
see the implementation discussion at :doc:`python_runner`.


Method 1: via XCI/BD files
--------------------------

If you use IP that are typically read from ``.xci`` or ``.bd`` files, then these can be added
directly to the list of ``sources`` passed to ``runner.build()``. The Vicoco runner will
internally launch Vivado to run ``export_ip_user_files`` on the specified IP source files.
The resulting simulation scripts are used to find the appropriate source files and included
libraries to add to the elaborated simulation, so that encrypted IP can be included as sources.
As long as the relevant IP files have been included as sources, IP can be used either as modules
within other sources or as the ``hdl_toplevel`` for the simulation.

.. note::
   It's possible that the ``GEN_DIR`` and similar attributes in your files are relative
   paths within their original projects; if copying IP source files around, it may be advisable
   to change the ``GEN_DIR`` locations to new locations.

This is the most efficient method of including IP in Vicoco, avoiding project mode entirely, and
the easiest method for avoiding excess rebuilds/relaunching of Vivado for generating sources.
However, if IP source files are not how your IP sources are tracked, then there are options for
including IP from TCL scripts instead.

Method 2: via TCL files
-----------------------

If your primary method of instantiating IP is via some variety of project-mode TCL script,
then this script can be added as a source by calling:
                
.. code-block:: python

                runner.add_export_simulation_tcl(
                    tcl_file = proj_path / "<path/to/tcl_file>.tcl",
                    force_export = True
                )

The ``force_export`` flag should be set to True for any script that doesn't already call ``export_simulation`` and exit as part of its main flow (including any un-modified exported TCL, as discussed in method 3). It runs the TCL script and then runs the main-flow steps to export the simulation to script files usable by Vicoco. If your script already exports a simulation, then this flag should be set to False.

The extra ``result_dir`` parameter is set to ``export_sim`` by default, but if the directory destination of your ``export_simulation`` is overridden from its default value then this operator should be set. It can also be used **without** a ``tcl_file`` specified, to use an already exported simulation in Vicoco.

The optional ``result_file`` can specify a (relative-path) file generated by the simulation, so Vicoco can check whether the TCL script has been modified more recently than the last time the results were generated, and potentially avoid re-running the TCL script. A resulting ``.xpr`` file may be a likely candidate for such a ``result_file``. If ``result_file`` is not specified, the TCL script will run with every test-launch, which can be quite slow.

The resulting script files are not called directly, but they _are_ scanned for necessary source file dependencies and additional libraries to include when running the elaboration step, similarly to the method used for IP files above. Once the TCL script has been added, any module defined within can be set as the ``hdl_toplevel`` or instantiated in other HDL source files passed to Vicoco.

.. note::
   Your TCL script will be run from inside cocotb's ``sim_build/`` directory, to contain the
   generated files. So, your TCL script should use absolute paths in order to function properly.
   If it's generated from an automatic GUI export, then ``-absolute-path`` flag may be useful.

Method 3: via Block Diagram exports
-----------------------------------

If you primarily interact with the Vivado GUI when modifying your IP designs, then you have two options of how you can export your design to be used in Vicoco:

#. ``export_simulation``
   
   From within the Vivado GUI, click "Run Simulation" to configure a simulation fileset. Then, in the GUI, call ``export_simulation``. No additional flags need to be set, but it may be desirable to set the `-directory` to a useful location. The results of this export can be used as a source (without an associated TCL script) by calling:
   
   .. code-block:: python

                   runner.add_export_simulation_tcl(
                       result_dir = proj_path / "path/to/export_sim/"
                   )

   This method relies on ``export_simulation`` being called from the GUI any time the design is updated, but avoids any possiblity of re-running generation scripts with each launch of cocotb.
   
#. ``write_bd_tcl`` / ``write_project_tcl``
   
   From the GUI, either the ``write_bd_tcl`` (if no project-specific source files are necessary) or ``write_project_tcl`` commands can be used to generate a portable TCL script to re-generate the project elsewhere. Call one of these commands, **including the** ``-absolute-path`` **flag**. The resulting TCL script can be used as a source to a cocotb test with the structure discussed above in Method 2.
   
